CEP27: toolkit Snippet (#297)
cyclus/cyclus.github.com: source/cep/cep27.rst

> CEP 27 - Agent Toolkit Capabilities

Reviewer: Probably want a slightly more precise/descriptive title since this CEP is about how to inject/integrate the toolkit capability into an archetype.

***********************************

:CEP: 27
:Title: Agent Toolkit Capabilities
:Last-Modified: 2019-10-28
:Author: Baptiste Mouginot <mouginot.baptiste@gmail.com>
:Status: Active
:Type: Standards Track
:Created: Baptiste Mouginot

Abstract
========

The |Cyclus| toolkit is designed to easily implement specific capabilities in

> newly developed archetypes, such as trading policy, commodity producers... To

Reviewer: ```suggestion
newly developed archetypes, such as trading policy, commodity producers. To
```

> add characteristics to archetypes such as Position or Metadata, the actual

Reviewer: Not sure it makes sense to refer to specific toolkit capabilities.  If we do, then:
```suggestion
add characteristics to archetypes such as `Position` or `Metadata`, the actual
```

implementation method is very verbose, where in each archetypes one needs to add
the new specification in the arcehtype header, then assign it and use it in the

> cpp file, with no guarantee on the consistency in the variable naming and

Reviewer: This sentence kind of runs on... Maybe consider making it a couple of sentences.

> cpp file, with no guarantee on the consistency in the variable naming and

Reviewer: Also - perhaps this is more representative (few things are every guaranteed :smile: ):
```suggestion
cpp file, and the developer must ensure the consistency in the variable naming and
```

in the implementation and the usage, across multiple archetypes.

Toolkit Implementation
======================

Each |Cyclus| toolkit component will contain 3 different files:
- 2 for the definition of the feature C++ class (``cpp`` and header) that allows
  the use of the capabilities, and optionally to register its values in the
  output database,
- a snippet definition file used to simplify the implementation and ensure
  consistency accross its integration in the different archetypes.

The snippet definition file will be included in the ``private`` section of the
archetype header as: ``#include toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp.h``. (The use of the
``cycpp.h`` has been chosen to allow syntax highlighting and inform developers
that this is not a standard C++ header.)

The snippet file, will contain the declaration of all the variables required
to use the capabilities class:

- the definition of the capability class as a member variable.

- (optional) if the capability requires/allows variable input from users,
  standard |Cyclus| member variable declaration with variable ``#pragma`` is
  required. In addition, to the standard variable declaration and the

>   ``#pragma`` the method also require a ``std::vector<int> cycpp_shape_myvariable`` 

Reviewer: Are these declarations in the snippet file?

Author: yes it should be included in the `toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp.h` file

multiplication of implementation in the each archetype using the feature.

Archetypes Integration
======================

When the capability is integrated in an Archetype the following implementations
have to be done:

1. Include the snippet in the class header core: 
   ``#include toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp,h``.

2. Add the proper default initialization of the variable required for the
   snippet.

3. (optional) In the ``Archetype::EnterNotify()``, initialise the toolkit class member
   variables with variables.

4. (optional) If required, call the ``RecordSnippet()`` method when necessary during the
   Archetype operation.

Class member vs Inheritance
===========================

With inheritance of the capability class, one will need to also modify the
archetype class declaration in addition to simply including the snippet at the
right place.
This may also lead to confusion, as one can believe that the user input value
for variable are passed in the constructor of the class and might lead the
develop to skip the assignation of the value in the inherited class in the
``EnterNotify``...

Otherwise behavior would be very similar.

> Exemple:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example:
```

> Exemple:

Reviewer: Can we include an example for inheritance as well as class member versions?

CEP 27 - Toolkit Capabilities Injection into an Archetype
*********************************************************

:CEP: 27
:Title: Agent Toolkit Capabilities
:Last-Modified: 2019-10-28
:Author: Baptiste Mouginot <mouginot.baptiste@gmail.com>
:Status: Active
:Type: Standards Track
:Created: Baptiste Mouginot

Abstract
========

The |Cyclus| toolkit is designed to easily implement specific capabilities in
newly developed archetypes, such as a trading policy, commodity producers, etc. To

> add characteristics to archetypes such as `Position` or `Metadata`, the actual

Reviewer: This is still a long, awkward sentence.

develop to skip the assignation of the value in the inherited class in the
``EnterNotify``...

Otherwise behavior would be very similar.

Example:
========

Without Inheritance:
--------------------
``toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp.h``:
.. highlight:: c
    cyclus::toolkit::Position coordinates(0,0);

    #pragma cyclus var { \
        "default": 0.0, \
        "uilabel": "Geographical latitude in degrees as a double", \
        "doc": "Latitude of the agent's geographical position. The value should " \
           "be expressed in degrees as a double." }
    double latitude = 0;
    // required for compilation but not added by the cycpp preprocessor...
    std::vector<int> cycpp_shape_latitude;

    #pragma cyclus var { \
           "default": 0.0, \
           "uilabel": "Geographical longitude in degrees as a double", \
           "doc": "Longitude of the agent's geographical position. The value should" \
           "be expressed in degrees as a double." }
    double longitude = 0;
    // required for compilation but not added by the cycpp preprocessor...
    std::vector<int> cycpp_shape_longitude;

``my_archetype_example.h``:

> .. highlight:: c

Reviewer: Should we add the `#include` line here for the toolkit class. e.g.
```
#include 'toolkit/Position.h'
```
This will help make it clear that both files need to be included.

Author: Yes I forgot about the `#include 'toolkit/Position.h`,

I am wondering if it would work if we put it inside the `toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp.h` ?

Reviewer: definitely not for inheritance

Author: Good point !

CEP 27 - Toolkit Capabilities Injection into an Archetype
*********************************************************

:CEP: 27
:Title: Agent Toolkit Capabilities
:Last-Modified: 2019-10-28
:Author: Baptiste Mouginot <mouginot.baptiste@gmail.com>
:Status: Active
:Type: Standards Track
:Created: Baptiste Mouginot

Abstract
========

The |Cyclus| toolkit is designed to easily implement specific capabilities in
newly developed archetypes, such as a trading policy, commodity producers, etc.
To add characteristics to archetypes such as `Position` or `Metadata`, the
actual implementation method is very verbose. It relies on adding the new

> specification in the arcehtype header, assignng it and use it in the cpp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specification in the arcehtype header, assigning it and use it in the cpp
```

- (optional) if the capability requires/allows variable input from users,
  standard |Cyclus| member variable declaration with variable ``#pragma`` is
  required. In addition, to the standard variable declaration and the
  ``#pragma`` the method also require a ``std::vector<int>
  cycpp_shape_myvariable`` to be declared for each of the decorated variable
  that are in the `toolkit/my_feature_snippet.cycpp.h` file. (``cycpp preprocessor`` is
  not able at the time to add them automatically for included files.)

The main purpose of this include method would be to ensure consistency across
archetypes using the same toolkit capability requiring user input, avoiding 1
set of input syntax per archetypes for the same capability.

If the toolkit features needs the capabilities to write in the output database a
``RecordSnippet(Agent* agent)`` method will be implemented in the toolkit class to avoid
multiplication of implementation in the each archetype using the feature.

Archetypes Integration
======================

When the capability is integrated in an Archetype the following implementations
have to be done:

1. Include toolkit class header in in the class header:

>    ``#include 'toolkit/my_feature.h'``.

Author: @gonuke Just added this, as you pointed out it was missing.

2. Include the snippet in the class header core: 
   ``#include toolkit/my_feature_snippet.cycpp,h``.

3. (optional) In the ``Archetype::EnterNotify()``, initialise the toolkit class member
   variables with variables.

4. (optional) If required, call the ``RecordSnippet()`` method when necessary during the
   Archetype operation.

Class member vs Inheritance
===========================

With inheritance of the capability class, one will need to also modify the
archetype class declaration in addition to simply including the snippet at the
right place.
This may also lead to confusion, as one can believe that the user input value
for variable are passed in the constructor of the class and might lead the
develop to skip the assignation of the value in the inherited class in the
``EnterNotify``...

Otherwise behavior would be very similar.

Example:
========

Without Inheritance:
--------------------
``toolkit/my_feature_snippet.cycpp.h``:
.. highlight:: c

>     cyclus::toolkit::Position coordinates(0,0);

Reviewer: If you remove only this line (not exposed in input), then the snippet can be used in both modes, and developer chooses name of member variable.

In fact, that might be better, because otherwise developer has to know name of member variable defined in the snippet.

Author: this is correct, (and I like the versatility it provides)
I guess it is a balance between versatility and amount of work on the developer side:
if we only support without-inheritance everything should be includable in the snippet.
if we want to support both, developers have to add:
- `#include 'toolkit/my_toolkit.h`
- inheritance or feature element
- `#include `toolkit/snippet.cycpp.h` in the class core.

(this is also why without inheritance has my (slight) preference.)

Author: the good thing with removing the variable it would allow both with and without inheritance

Reviewer: Even without inheritance, I'm not sure we want to assume that the member variable is always defined by the snippet... what if you want two positions?

Author: sure but then what is the use of the snippet ? because some member variable are defined in the snippet (at least the one expose in the input.)

I don't see how to use the snippet with 2 positions.

Reviewer: This might not be the best example of including more than one instance.  In addition, there may be a need to initialize each instance which gets complicated again.  Nevertheless, I think asking the developer to explicitly declare their member variable is not too much to ask.

We should open this up to additional discussion, e.g. on the mailing list.

Reviewer: I still think there is a benefit to having a single snippet file and then letting user choose the variable name in the non-inheritance case.  We can include that in the example in the documentation.

Once we get that resolved, and clean up this CEP, I think I'm ready to approve/merge this and the follow-up PR's in the code repos.

CEP 27 - Toolkit Capabilities Injection into an Archetype
*********************************************************

:CEP: 27
:Title: Agent Toolkit Capabilities
:Last-Modified: 2019-10-28
:Author: Baptiste Mouginot <mouginot.baptiste@gmail.com>
:Status: Active
:Type: Standards Track
:Created: Baptiste Mouginot

Abstract
========

The |Cyclus| toolkit is designed to easily implement specific capabilities in

> newly developed archetypes, such as trading policy, commodity producers. To

Reviewer: ```suggestion
newly developed archetypes, such as a trading policy, commodity producers, etc. To
```

add characteristics to archetypes such as `Position` or `Metadata`, the actual
implementation method is very verbose, where in each archetypes one needs to add
the new specification in the arcehtype header, then assign it and use it in the
cpp file, and the developer must ensure the consistency in the variable naming and
implementation across multiple archetypes.

> This CEP explains how to use snippets to simplify and maintain consistency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This CEP explains introduces the concept of snippets to simplify and maintain consistency
```

Archetypes Integration
======================

When the capability is integrated in an Archetype the following implementations
have to be done:

1. Include the snippet in the class header core: 
   ``#include toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp,h``.

2. Add the proper default initialization of the variable required for the
   snippet.

3. (optional) In the ``Archetype::EnterNotify()``, initialise the toolkit class member
   variables with variables.

4. (optional) If required, call the ``RecordSnippet()`` method when necessary during the
   Archetype operation.

Class member vs Inheritance
===========================

With inheritance of the capability class, one will need to also modify the
archetype class declaration in addition to simply including the snippet at the
right place.
This may also lead to confusion, as one can believe that the user input value
for variable are passed in the constructor of the class and might lead the
develop to skip the assignation of the value in the inherited class in the
``EnterNotify``...

Otherwise behavior would be very similar.

Example:
========

Without Inheritance:
--------------------
``toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp.h``:
.. highlight:: c

>     cyclus::toolkit::Position coordinates;

Reviewer: Is this only in the version without inheritance?  Is this the only difference between the **with** and **without**?

Author: it also change in the implementation of the archetype

Reviewer: I mean the only difference in the snippet.  It would be great if the same snippet could be used in both modes.

        "default": 0.0, \
        "uilabel": "Geographical latitude in degrees as a double", \
        "doc": "Latitude of the agent's geographical position. The value should " \
           "be expressed in degrees as a double." }
    double latitude;
    // required for compilation but not added by the cycpp preprocessor...
    std::vector<int> cycpp_shape_latitude;

    #pragma cyclus var { \
           "default": 0.0, \
           "uilabel": "Geographical longitude in degrees as a double", \
           "doc": "Longitude of the agent's geographical position. The value should" \
           "be expressed in degrees as a double." }
    double longitude;
    // required for compilation but not added by the cycpp preprocessor...
    std::vector<int> cycpp_shape_longitude;

``my_archetype_example.h``:
.. highlight:: c
    class fun_archetype : public cyclus::facility{
        public:
        [...]
        private:
        [...]
        #include "toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp.h"
    }

``my_archetype_example.cpp``:
.. highlight:: c
    fun_archetype::fun_archetype(cyclus::Context* ctx):
        cyclus::facility(ctx),
        var1(0.0),
        var2(0.0),
        ...,

>         coordinates(0,0), //coordinates constructor (toolkit feature class)

Reviewer: if we use C++11 can we initialize these in the snippet?

Author: yes that's true, this will be way better !

Author: I'll try this in my Position PR and see how it does work out!

Author: it seems to be working, I updated both the PR and the CEP accordingly

        "default": 0.0, \
        "uilabel": "Geographical latitude in degrees as a double", \
        "doc": "Latitude of the agent's geographical position. The value should " \
           "be expressed in degrees as a double." }
    double latitude;
    // required for compilation but not added by the cycpp preprocessor...
    std::vector<int> cycpp_shape_latitude;

    #pragma cyclus var { \
           "default": 0.0, \
           "uilabel": "Geographical longitude in degrees as a double", \
           "doc": "Longitude of the agent's geographical position. The value should" \
           "be expressed in degrees as a double." }
    double longitude;
    // required for compilation but not added by the cycpp preprocessor...
    std::vector<int> cycpp_shape_longitude;

``my_archetype_example.h``:
.. highlight:: c
    class fun_archetype : public cyclus::facility, public Position {
        public:
        [...]
        private:
        [...]
        #include "toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp.h"
    }

``my_archetype_example.cpp``:
.. highlight:: c
    fun_archetype::fun_archetype(cyclus::Context* ctx):
        cyclus::facility(ctx),
        var1(0.0),
        var2(0.0),
        ...,

>         coordinates(0,0), //coordinates constructor (toolkit feature class)

Reviewer: This initializer is not necessary/valid because the snippet in this example doesn't include the `coordinates` variable.

the integration of the feature in a newly develop archetypes.

The snippet file with then be included in the header part of the archetypes
class declaration as": ``#include toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp.h``

(The use of the ``cycpp.h`` has been chosen to allow syntax highlighting and
inform developers that this is not a standard C++ header)
The snippet file, will contain the declaration of all the variables required
to use the capabilities class:

- the definition of the capability class as a member variable.

- (optional) if the capability requires/allows variable input from users,
  standard |Cyclus| member variable declaration with variable ``#pragma`` is
  required. In addition, to the standard variable declaration and the
  ``#pragma`` the method also require a ``std::vector<int>
  cycpp_shape_myvariable0`` to be declared for each of the decorated variable.
  ``cycpp preprocessor`` is not able at the time to add them automatically for
  included files.

The main interest of this include method would be to insure consistency across
archetypes using the same toolkit capability requiring user input, avoiding 1
set of input syntax per archetypes for the same capability.

> If the toolkit features needs to capabilities to write in the output database a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the toolkit features needs the capabilities to write in the output database a
```

``RecordSnippet(Agent* agent)`` method will be implemented to avoid
multiplication of implementation in the archetypes.

Archetypes Integration
======================

When the capability is integrated in an Archetype the following implementations
have to be done:

1. Include the snippet in the class header core: ``#include
   toolkit/my_snippet.cycpp,h``.

> 2. Add the proper default initialisation of the variable required for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the proper default initialization of the variable required for the
```

   snippet.

> 3. In the ``Archetype::EnterNotify()``, assign the Snippet with value

Reviewer: Do you really assign the "Snippet" with a value???
